This is, excuse me, Colossians, chapter 4, verses 2 through 6.
Continue earnestly in prayer, being vigilant with thanksgiving.
Meanwhile, pray also for us that God would open to us a door for the Word to speak the mystery of Christ for which I am also in chains, that I may manifest as I ought to speak.
Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside redeeming the time.
Let your speech always be with grace seasoned with salt that you may know how to answer each one.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Amen.
May God add his blessing to the reunion of his word.
You may be seated.
I want to focus on
2 Timothy verses 16 and 17 and chapter 3, it talks about the Word of God and what it's for.
And in that passage it says, it's to help the man of God, woman of God, to be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work.
That's what the Holy Scriptures are for.
And we're going to talk about being equipped today.
And I thought one of the best ways to talk about that.
And I think some of the folks here today
with no more about this than I do but I'm still going to venture into those waters and say when you are a firefighter and you fight a fire you need to have the right equipment you don't go in there without the right stuff you gotta have all the proper equipment to fight that blaze or you may not come out to fight another one and you may not be able to defeat that one but I don't think when a firefighter goes into a building they go because they feel brave
I believe it's because they feel trained and equipped properly to do the job.
It's not a matter of bravery.
It's a matter of doing what they do.
The equipment that they wear doesn't remove the danger of the situation.
What it does is it prepares them to act effectively in the midst of it.
So the equipment doesn't change the situation.
It makes it manageable.
And we as a church,
are called into a world that's on fire.
And I don't mean like Holy Spirit fire, I mean the wrong kind of fire is what the world's dealing with.
So the question isn't whether we're willing to go out into the world to face that, but whether we are equipped when we do, because we're going to be out there in the world and it's not going after God for the most part.
It's going after their own selfish concerns and reasons.
So if we're going to go out into the fire, we need trained, we need equipped, and some fires that are out there burning, we must be equipped to handle them.
Because some of those, if we don't handle them right, are going to eat us up and cause us to be very discouraged if we handle it wrong.
So how do we get equipped?
And according to the verse I just mentioned in 2 Timothy, it says we are quipped by the word of God.
That's the first way.
God's word is not just information, it's for transformation.
It can change a life.
So when you're studying the word of God, you're not just learning about what it says, you're letting it change you on the inside.
It's just, how do I say this?
It's life changing power happens when you're open to its work.
The Word of God trains our responses.
It disciplines our thinking and sharpens our discernment.
Now I had to read down my notes because that's your fill in the blank and I wanted to make sure I said it right.
But listen to this.
This is the message translation of that verse.
you will be God's servant, fully mature and perfectly prepared to fulfill any assignment God gives you.
When the God word equips you.
When we are, I like this phrase, word equipped.
I've equipped with word of God.
We're ready for real world encounters.
The word here that's used in this passage for equip is this word
in full understanding what it means means fully furnished or appropriately fitted.
You have the right stuff, the right things, and you're not missing any pieces of it.
It's like when you wear the full armor of God you have all parts, you don't miss a part of it.
So fully equipped means that we are completely appropriately fitted for what God asks us to do.
Some people are dreamed well, but not for what God asks them to do.
Sometimes people get all knowledgeable about the word, but it doesn't help them to share the gospel.
Well, you know, this is what the Bible says, and this is the culture, and it sounds great, but information doesn't transform.
It's the heart of the gospel that transforms lives through the power of the Holy Spirit.
There's no other way.
We can't do it by being smart in the Bible.
It doesn't help.
used to be a great compliment many years ago.
People say, man, you sound like Charles Stanley.
You got the good knowledge of the Bible and everything.
And I'm going, hey, that's a compliment.
And later I realized, I don't like Charles Stanley.
I mean, he's good to listen to, but I don't like his style.
I'm going, I got to change because I don't want to be Charles Stanley would be what God equipped me to be.
So over years in time, I became a different kind of a person.
in the pulpit because I wanted God to do with me what He wanted to do.
And not because of that, but because you don't start out with where you end to know.
We can always learn.
We can always grow.
And if we start one place, imagine how far God could bring us if that's a good place to start.
So when God works on us, He equips us with the Word and He also equips us with His Holy Spirit.
In Acts chapter 1, verse 8, Jesus is announcing to the disciples before he ascends, you shall receive power and you shall be witnesses.
The spirit equips us to engage hearts, not necessarily mindful arguments, but at the heart level, because the Holy Spirit breaks through intellect to what's really underneath.
breaks down resistance.
When Peter was transformed, if you look at Peter's success rate, he didn't have it until the day of Pentecost.
He was very bold in his words, but unproofful.
But on the day of Pentecost, after he got the Holy Spirit and he preached 3,000 people were added to the church that day because of the Holy Spirit's empowerment.
He didn't have anybody before the head.
He was driving people away.
It seems rather than drawing them in.
So when the Holy Spirit comes on you, you'll be able to be my witnesses.
That's what Jesus tells the disciples.
When you have the Holy Spirit, you can witness.
society is changing so rapidly.
Are you searching for the reasons why?
Join us on the Rise Radio Podcast.
For a journey of discovery, as we wrestle with the latest social narratives, belief systems, ancient prophecies, strange phenomena, and spirituality, your worldview will never be the same again.
Rise above the noise.
Visit RiseRadio.net today.
Without the Holy Spirit, it's rhetoric and memory and doesn't work like it's supposed to because it's God's Spirit that gives you the power in the Word.
If you don't have the Holy Spirit behind it, it's going to be a problematic situation when you think, why am I not being effective?
Listen, I didn't say yes to Africa last year because I had this holy boldness.
Y'all know, I was going scared and nervous.
and anxious but afraid I guess that'd be about the same but when I went I went because I trusted God was sending me not because I was all this person or anything but I said yes I didn't want to ignore the work of God that he asked me to do because I was confident in his ass not in my ability
Because if God's asking you to do something, he knows you.
And he knows what you can't and cannot do.
He won't ask you to do something that he won't help you accomplish.
And that's the case with that.
So the Holy Spirit had to work through that process in a major way.
Because I didn't know anything about the culture.
I didn't know anything about the people and what to say.
I didn't know what they needed.
And all the preparation and the knowledge I gained very little of it did I use.
It was actually the cultural learning that I had to study and understand protocol that helped me the most.
More than learning about how to say good words about how to reach villagers, it just didn't work that way.
So we're equipped by the Word of God and by the Holy Spirit, but we're also equipped.
And I think this is really important, we sometimes overlook this, is through our experiences.
If you look at Saint Corinthians chapter one verse four, it says, God comforts us so that we can comfort other people.
With the same comfort that He gives us, we give to others.
In other words,
Every healed wound becomes a part of your equipping kit.
Where you've been damaged or wounded becomes a part of the story when it's healed that other people can relate to.
Our scars make us approachable, not broken, not damaged goods, but safe.
Our scars don't disqualify us.
They authenticate us.
A former alcoholic can help another.
A person who's lost a child can speak to someone else who lost a child.
They understand the story.
A person who struggles with depression can help somebody else with depression.
They understand how it feels and they don't feel so alone in it anymore.
Now, let me tell you something.
When stuff like that's happening, it's painful.
It hurts.
Scars come from a painful moment.
But I have to tell you something.
Those scars have great value to God.
Because every time you've been hurt or broken and God's brought you through it, that's a connecting point with someone else who had the same stuff going on right now.
You say, well, I don't know, God.
Well, let me say this.
A formerly homeless person.
can understand and help another where other people say, I don't know, they smell bad.
Personally, it's formerly homeless because I was a smell bad person one time.
I don't care about that.
What I care about is that they can have hope.
Because if you talk to someone who's gone through a bad situation that you've been through and they see you on the other side and they see that you made it and you understand what it's like to be in it and to go through it, they have hope.
And that speaks because God won't waste your hurt if you'll let him heal it and use it to bless another.
Those are gifts that at the time don't feel very good.
But we were healed by the stripes on Jesus' back.
It didn't feel good for him, but it healed us.
And so the wounds you go through can heal another.
So what is it in your life that's caused you hurt?
Pain, sorrow, grief.
That is the kind of person you can speak to who's dealt with that or is dealing with that same thing.
You speak the same heart language.
Nobody else can talk to that person and understand but someone who's been through it.
So your experience is valuable.
And once he's done equipping our experience, he equips us as the body of Christ.
I love this, how God works.
And if he's in chapter four, verse 11 through 16, he tells us that leaders equip the saints for the work of ministry.
This is what he says.
I love this 16th verse and we'll get to it.
It says in verse 11, and he himself, Jesus,
gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers.
For the equipping, there's that equip word, of the saints for the work of ministry.
So he's equipping us to the ministry for the edifying of the body of Christ.
So we are equipped.
and edified by being able to go out and do effectively what God asked us to do.
So that edifies us until we all come to the unity of faith and the knowledge of the Son of God to a perfect man to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ.
Until we all have the fullness of Christ we keep doing this, keep working at it, that we should no longer be children.
Tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine.
You know how people go, here's the latest thing.
that by the trickery of men in the cunning craftiness of deceitful plotting, but is what we do.
Speaking the truth in love that we may grow up in all things into him who is the head Christ.
And here's verse 16.
From whom the whole body joined and knit together by what every joint supplies according to the effective working by which every part
Does it share?
Causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself in love.
That is gospel.
That is powerful.
The church's strength is a mobilized body equipped to do the work of God.
It's not one single gifted individual.
There's not enough of that person to go around.
Every member, this is one translation, says it like this.
Every member has been given divine gifts to contribute to the growth of all.
Every person here has a gift, no matter what it is, to help others here.
And by helping others here, we can go out and help others outside.
Here's what I'm trying to say.
You are indispensable to God's plan.
Jesus didn't redeem you to leave you by the wayside.
He redeemed you to give you a message of what he's done for you.
And he's going to continue to do that.
So that's what the positioning alignment series is all about that we're in.
Equipping you for what God wants us to do.
Equipping you for us because we all have a part in it.
We can't go forward
and do what God wants us to do without knowing and being trained or equipped on how to do it.
I don't think Donald would never go anywhere on a call without taking his emergency vehicle and equipment, just hopping his car and go.
I don't think that would work.
Oh, I need pad.
Oh, I don't have anything.
All I got is my car.
You have to have not only yourself, but all the things that help you do what you do.
And we engage conversation
as we get trained, we are equipped to handle conversations with people.
I think one of the things that we sometimes forget is what 1 Peter chapter 3 verse 15 said.
It says, always be ready to explain your hope with gentleness and respect.
And there's a framework for sharing.
If you've done Cairo's ministry, you're going to recognize this.
The first thing we do when we're engaging with someone is listen first.
Cairo says, listen, listen, love, love.
So we always listen first.
Listen to their story, listen what they're about.
And then we can relate personally to their story.
If any of our story connects with them.
And then we can invite them gently into the conversation about Christ and where he has restored and transformed that part of your life, telling the story of what God did for you.
And then follow through.
That's the most important part is followed through.
If you look at Jesus in John chapter 4, he did all these things.
When the woman at the well was sitting there, they began to talk about water.
They engaged about something they were both familiar.
So he listened to her story about water and her struggle and he engaged her personally.
Then he invited her to ask him for water and she
continued the conversation.
And Jesus could have said, hey, all right, she wants no more of this set up a time, we'll get together, we'll figure it out.
He kept going.
He followed through on the conversation right then and there.
And he stayed three more days because those people were hungry for the word.
But listen, he opened up with water and this opened up an eternal need inside of her.
He was able to talk about it to the part of the Holy Spirit about something that she was doing, which was being thirsty.
This was a thirsty woman, not just for water, but for anything she could find to make her feel like a real person.
She was thirsty and no relationship could satisfy it and no drink of water could do it.
And Jesus said, I have water.
You don't know anything about, she goes, I need that.
I'm tired.
I've not been able to satisfy what I'm thirsty for because I don't even know what it is.
And Jesus followed through with that.
So, follow through.
It's so important and most of us give up.
Did you know?
I used to be a salesman.
I wasn't really good because I always thought no, man.
No.
And no, to me, man, it's no all the time.
But what they say in sales training schools are
The first note is on your way to the next note.
And your next note is on the way to the next note, which eventually gets to your first yes.
And you have to have a lot of notes to get to the first yes.
One guy said he knew after 30 notes he'd get one yes, so he's counting his notes.
But did you know that most sales are not closing to the fifth call?
The fifth call.
Because by the fourth call, there's a relationship and an expectation this person is going to be there and trust is formed.
And by the time trust is formed, by the fifth time someone has asked, they'll say yes.
So if you've invited someone to church twice, you got two more notes.
And maybe three or more.
But they will eventually get to you when they finally catch them at the right time and the Holy Spirit work on them.
They say, man, I'm glad you asked me again.
follow through.
Don't give up because those no's are the journey to the first yes.
And once they find out who Jesus says, you don't have to convince them.
Jesus will do all the work.
That Holy Spirit's really good at what He does.
So don't give up.
Keep following through on what God's trying to do.
And if He's invited someone in your heart to invite them to church, don't stop.
Don't do it like every 10 minutes, but you know,
Don't quit.
You say, hey, we got a new program.
We got this in church.
We got that.
Would you like to come?
Suitor later, you're going to say, hey, that sounds good.
Whatever it takes.
I think part of that is sometimes we're looking for low hanging fruit.
Not the hard to reach stuff up top of the tree, but the low hanging fruit.
But if we want the fruit,
that's on how we have to endure.
We have to be equipped to endure.
In Galatians chapter 6 verse 9 it says, let's not allow ourselves to get fatigued in doing good.
We will harvest at the right time.
That is such a great verse for us because endurance can be hard.
Keeping going when there's no fruit can be difficult.
I have to admire Peter.
I can pick on him all day long about how he wasn't fruitful.
But he didn't quit.
He kept trying.
He kept trying to do it again and again and again, whatever reason why he still didn't quit.
And on the day of Pentecost he said, well, I'm not doing this anymore.
He didn't miss that opportunity, wouldn't he?
But he endured.
We have excuses that we call reasons to not do something.
I always said like this, you can justify anything you don't want to do.
You can have a good reason.
And you'll believe that reason, real good.
You will.
You'll go, well, I was tired.
Man, that's enough reason for me.
I'll explain it to I was tired.
And it's good enough for me.
And maybe they'll understand it.
No, I'm so not doing it.
And we kind of talk to ourselves into this reasoning that's really just an excuse that we don't want to do something.
But let me share something with you.
The reasons you give yourself to not do something pale in comparison to the call of God on your life.
Do you want to know if I had a list of all the reasons why I wasn't going to go to Africa?
Been there long or more.
And every day someone else gave me another reason to put on the list of not to go.
So on the other side, God said go.
And that trumps to me.
When God says go, he's going to make sure that it works out.
God?
can equip your weaknesses and your strengths.
So if you're tired, don't know how God can equip you.
Don't let your excuse for your reason to tell God he can't use you.
When you look at the call of God and say, he says, you know, you had that really bad struggle with depression.
I need you to go talk to your neighbor next door.
You go, well, I really don't know them that well.
You know, they're probably busy.
I got out of the things I want to do.
I'm tired.
I got to cook dinner.
You know, I got the phone calls to make.
I got, oh, I forgot to pay this bill.
I got to clip my, whatever, you know, you put out there and that person could be saying, Lord, if you just send somebody.
Because right now I don't think I want to live anymore.
And I don't think anybody understands what this is like.
I just need somebody in their brain and God puts it on your heart.
That's the answer to their prayer.
And you say, well, I didn't want to.
That person could end up doing something stupid because we weren't obedient.
And we go, well, God, you know, I just didn't want to.
And you look at what happened and you go, I feel so bad.
Because I could it.
But I said, no.
God always asks you to do something that He needs you to do.
And you're the one available right then.
It's always asking for your availability, not your ability.
And so you can do that.
Why this Holy Spirit equips for output and endurance.
That's what the Holy Spirit's job is.
The big major human doesn't mean you're failing.
Doesn't mean you can't do something.
It means you're human and you ask God for strength.
Because
When you look at it this way, we are equipped with the compassion of God.
In Colossians 3 12, it says, clothe yourselves with tender hearted mercy, kindness, humility, gentleness and patience.
Without compassion, preparation becomes performance.
And it's all about you.
Look what I've done for God and all this.
But with compassion, it's about bringing the healing work of God through a broken vessel like yourself.
We're all wounded healers of God if we'll let ourselves put those wounds out there or our gentleness.
Compassion turns doors into pathways.
When I was in Cincinnati as a teaching parish,
I was at the Twin Towers retirement community.
It's one of those vast expanses that has everything from houses and apartments to level 5 and level 4 care nursing.
It had the whole deal all in one complex.
And I had the weekend chaplain duty.
On the weekend chaplain duty basically meant that I would go visit people who were new or help them get accustomed.
I would visit with people in their rooms or about to have surgery, things like that, get to know the residents.
Well, I also would do a worship service on Saturday and Sunday, and I'll play the guitar, sing, say a few words, and then I'll go and shake hands.
I think I told you a story about how I did that in Mississippi.
Well, this particular weekend, I asked a chaplain if I could offer communion, and he said, sure, go ahead.
Not a problem.
And so I brought the elements and after I played and sang, I told the people what I was going to do.
And so I went around to each person and offered elements.
And the people all received it.
I got to one lady in the wheelchair sitting there and a nurse with me holding some of the elements.
And I had a church just thank you.
I haven't had this in years.
And the nurse almost fell on her face.
She fell out, and I'm going, what is she?
Say it, Mr. Something?
I don't know why she's doing that.
And so a few moments later after we walked away from her, said that's the first thing she said in three years here.
Do you understand God can reach through what we can?
And so in the moment when she connected, she knew that God had met her.
That's compassion.
People would say, well, she didn't talk.
If I didn't know she didn't talk, I thought she couldn't receive either.
But she talked.
I had no idea.
There was a miracle that the compassion God showed up.
So expect God to show up when you're obedient.
He will.
So how do we do this?
I think it's kind of obvious from the things I've said, but I'll kind of
recap and sum up these very practical things the first one is make sure you're in the Bible every day learning but also getting equipped with the word to train you on how to share it with others and the second thing to do is equip your heart with prayer before you go out in your name before you interact with people these are common sense things and let your home be a place of welcome and discipleship
Invite people into your home.
Welcome them.
And then just lift your hands and your heart by going outside of your comfort zones and serving there.
Well, I'm uncomfortable with that guys going, cool.
Go ahead and be uncomfortable.
And equip your words with grace.
I want to tell you how this works.
It's compassion and serving.
on something that happened to me this week.
As most of you know, I'm a school bus driver, not driving a school bus right now because I injured my back at work.
I'm driving a suburban and I'm getting what are called transitional kids.
Kids that don't have a permanent place to stay and usually out of the district I go out and get them and I bring them back into town for school.
Well I got two new kids this week and I recognize the name of one of them because it was a student on my bus that had been disruptive
for a long time.
Well, I went and got her and her brother and started taking them to school this week.
On Wednesday, they were staying at a hotel near the mall in the interstate area and I picked them up and she brings out two big muffins and says, I don't know if you had breakfast, but here's two muffins and I said, you know, it's interesting.
This is the one day this week I haven't had breakfast.
Thank you.
So we're driving along and chewing on these muffins and all this and I thought, you know, cause she was, she was rough on the bus.
Okay.
I said, you know, you've never offered me muffins before.
And she said, well, I wanted to thank you for giving us a ride to school.
And I said, but I gave you lots of rides on the bus.
You never gave me a thing.
You know what she said?
She said, I didn't give you muscles before because I didn't have any.
I didn't have any.
Now, the hotel provided them, but she had access.
She didn't have to do that.
You understand, she didn't have to think about me, but she had a way of saying, thank you that she could do because she had them.
Listen, it doesn't matter where I came from, God gave you something and you can give what you have.
You can't give what you don't have.
And it's your wounds, it's your heart, it's your joy, it's your passion and compassion for people around you.
That's what God says, give what you have.
When she said that to me, I almost lost it.
I was like, oh, that's so sweet.
I didn't expect it after her attitude on the bus, but she was loving me.
It's because you didn't know how before and didn't have a way to do it.
We have a way with Jesus Christ to love and give.
So I'm asking God to do something.
I'm asking God to get you uncomfortable in serving and serve anyway.
There's no reward without risk.
Faith is risky.
I got a shirt that says, Faith got me living risky.
I agree with that.
But not living in faith means your faith is a dead faith, which means this.
Faith serves.
If you're not in service somewhere, you have a dead faith.
So faith seeks to be equipped to serve better.
And faith trusts that God
won't call you to failure.
He loves you, he knows you, and he knows you can reach who he's calling you to reach for him.
Would you pray with me?
God, thank you for not only calling us, but equipping us the way you call this too.
Strengthen us by our word, empower us by our spirit,
and soften us with your compassion.
Let every conversation, every connection, and every act of kindness reflect you.
Prepare to engage our world with courage and humility.
And with what we have, let everything that might be.
I ask you this in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
Great book.